RFC 198: Move the container image from Docker Hub to GitHub Registry (#198)
web-platform-tests/rfcs: rfcs/docker_github_registry.md

# RFC 198: Move the container image from Docker Hub to GitHub Registry

## Summary

This RFC proposes moving the container image from Docker Hub to GitHub Registry.

## Details

This RFC addresses the issue
[#28903](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/issues/28903). Docker Hub
organization allows for a limited number of members and only a few members can
publish a new Docker image that sometimes results in the Docker image that is
used in taskcluster being outdated as documented in [this PR](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/pull/44576#issue-2133724788).

The following are the benefits of using the GitHub registry for hosting:

- It is [hosted on GitHub](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/packages) together with the wpt repository.
- Publishing is possible by any project member who has the write permissions to the

>   repository.

Reviewer: I don't know what this image is used for, but that's a lot of people who we haven't (and probably don't want to) vet for more than "is willing to review tests"

Author: <img width="1113" alt="Screenshot 2024-05-29 at 10 19 34" src="https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/assets/399150/c3744c06-2f0a-49f5-a77a-0cdb76b5e7d8">

Members with the Write access can make changes to the Dockerfile so it seems appropriate to also allow publishing the changes. Alternatively, on the package settings page there is an option to not inherit the permissions or disallow access from the workflows so the admin can change that and only allow selected members if that is desired.

Reviewer 2: We could use a different repo for the images if we wanted different permissions. 

We can also use `CODEOWNERS` to ensure that any changes to the docker image get admin review before being merged which would prevent updating the CI to use a new version of the image, but wouldn't prevent  publishing images in the first place.

We can also change the permissions on specific packages (notably the `wpt` package) to not inherit from the wpt base permissions. I think it would still (and maybe always was?) possible for people to publish new packages which would by default inherit permissions from the repo.

- Publishing is possible [via GitHub Actions](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/master/.github/workflows/docker.yml):

    - The workflow can be manually invoked,
    - or it can be further automated to deploy any changes that land.

> - We can use the chane to change the versioning scheme to use integer numbers.

Reviewer 3: Fixing the "chane" typo by rewording:

```suggestion
- We can take the opportunity to change the versioning scheme to use integer numbers.
```

The following PR implements changes to use the image from GitHub registry
instead of the Docker Hub one
https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/pull/46279 including modifications to
tools/docker/frontend.py.

This RFC also proposes to change the version numbers to be integers starting
with `1`.

> ## Risks

Reviewer 3: I would guess the biggest risk is that Taskcluster pulling the image gets errors more often than with Docker Hub, or perhaps that some caching works differently so that all jobs take longer to start.

The reliability is hard to judge ahead of time, but the time it takes can be measured once at least to ensure no big difference.

Author: I think I can try to get the numbers from the test runs. I will add the information and update the RFC.

Author: I have took two random TC jobs using the old and the new image and suprisingly the download time is ~48 seconds for both (I didn't see any indication of caching in the logs):

dockerhub registry: https://community-tc.services.mozilla.com/tasks/ZNnHobGNTiS4qBiv0l7Z-A/runs/0/logs/live/public/logs/live.log

github registry: https://community-tc.services.mozilla.com/tasks/F3k9fZ6TSdC6Cd9kIwnX0A/runs/1/logs/public/logs/live.log

- We can take the opportunity to change the versioning scheme to use integer numbers.

The following PR implements changes to use the image from GitHub registry
instead of the Docker Hub one
https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/pull/46279 including modifications to
tools/docker/frontend.py.

This RFC also proposes to change the version numbers to be integers starting
with `1`.

### Permissions

The following permissions shall apply to publishing of the image and Dockerfile changes:

* Registry permissions (**this part needs to be configured by the project admin on [this page](https://github.com/orgs/web-platform-tests/packages/container/wpt/settings)**):
  * Default inheritance of permissions from the repository should be disabled and the access needs to be provided to:
    * The [admin](https://github.com/orgs/web-platform-tests/teams/admins) team
    * The [core](https://github.com/orgs/web-platform-tests/teams/wpt-core-team) team
    * the github workflows ([docs](https://docs.github.com/en/packages/learn-github-packages/about-permissions-for-github-packages#maintaining-access-to-packages-in-github-actions-workflows))

* Dockerfile changes

>   * Use CODEOWNERS to require reviews from the admins and core teams.

Reviewer 2: Can you be specific about which changes will require review? I think it should be changes to the Dockerfile and changes to the `.taskcluster.yml` file.

Author: Updated
